feat: add variable substitution support for check definitions (#1078)
databrickslabs/dqx: docs/dqx/docs/guide/additional_configuration.mdx

skipped = checked_df.select(F.explode("_errors").alias("e")).filter(F.col("e.skipped") == True)
```

## Defining default variables for substitution

DQX allows you to define engine-level defaults for variables used in declarative check definitions (YAML, JSON, or Delta tables). These defaults are automatically applied during `load_checks` unless overridden by the per-call `variables` parameter.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="Python" label="Python" default>
    ```python
    from databricks.labs.dqx.engine import DQEngine
    from databricks.labs.dqx.config import ExtraParams
    from databricks.sdk import WorkspaceClient

    # Initialize engine with default variables
    dq_engine = DQEngine(
        WorkspaceClient(),
        extra_params=ExtraParams(
            variables={
                "min_temp": 0,
                "max_temp": 50,
                "region": "GLOBAL"
            }
        )
    )

    # Load checks - uses 'min_temp' and 'max_temp' from defaults,
    # but overrides 'region' specifically for this call.
    resolved_checks = dq_engine.load_checks(

>         config=FileChecksStorageConfig(location="checks.yml"),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        config=FileChecksStorageConfig(location="checks.yml"),  variables={ "region": "EMEA" }
```

    )
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

<Admonition type="warning" title="Variable substitution in workflows">

> Variable substitution is not currently supported in DQX installable workflows. Variables cam be defined and stored as YAML in the configuration file but will not be applied during workflow execution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Variable substitution is not currently supported in DQX installable workflows. Variables can be defined and stored as YAML in the configuration file but will not be applied during workflow execution.

Variable substitution is only available when defining checks declaratively (as dictionaries or in files/tables). It is not supported when using DQX classes (e.g., `DQRowRule`) directly.
```

skipped = checked_df.select(F.explode("_errors").alias("e")).filter(F.col("e.skipped") == True)
```

## Defining default variables for substitution

DQX allows you to define engine-level defaults for variables used in declarative check definitions (YAML, JSON, or Delta tables). These defaults are automatically applied during `load_checks` unless overridden by the per-call `variables` parameter.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="Python" label="Python" default>
    ```python
    from databricks.labs.dqx.engine import DQEngine
    from databricks.labs.dqx.config import ExtraParams
    from databricks.sdk import WorkspaceClient

    # Initialize engine with default variables
    dq_engine = DQEngine(
        WorkspaceClient(),
        extra_params=ExtraParams(
            variables={
                "min_temp": 0,
                "max_temp": 50,
                "region": "GLOBAL"
            }
        )
    )

    # Load checks - uses 'min_temp' and 'max_temp' from defaults,
    # but overrides 'region' specifically for this call.
    resolved_checks = dq_engine.load_checks(
        config=FileChecksStorageConfig(location="checks.yml"),
    )
    ```
  </TabItem>

>   <TabItem value="Workflows" label="Workflows">

Author: I am afraid that variable resolution will not work on DQX workflows, as it's not called by the method `_apply_checks_for_run_config`

Reviewer 2: We can open a follow-up issue to add optional variable substitution to the installable workflows. It may be best to call this out as a warning in the docs until we can support this.

    You can set the following fields in the [configuration file](/docs/installation/#configuration-file) to define default variables for substitution when using DQX workflows:
    ```yaml
    extra_params:
      variables:
        min_temp: 0
        max_temp: 50
        region: GLOBAL
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Overwriting run metadata

> By default, DQX automatically generates a unique `run_id` for each engine instance and uses the current timestamp as the `run_time`. You can manually overwrite these values using `ExtraParams` if you need to align DQX results with external systems or re-run checks for a specific historical point in time.

Author: I saw that `run_id_overwrite` and `run_time_overwrite` explanation was missing in the additional param doc
